I was lying a very long time because
Society wasn't ready to hear what I had
to say but I will be honest with you I
was H record breaker history maker
Arsenal's record goal scorer throughout
my career I must have been in depression
did I do something about it no but to
understand the person that I became you
have to understand what happened early
when I was young I didn't see a lot of
love affection hugging my dad the first
time he took me in his arms said this
baby will be an amazing football player
from that point I was programmed to
succeed my dad took control of my body
and it was tough one day we played the
game I was 13 years old we won a game 60
I scored six goals but it was always
what I didn't do you missed that control
you missed that cross you missed that
this you missed that that and it can
make you or break you I decided it was
going to make
me I wasn't scared of failing you're
going to fail that's what shapes you but
I was more scared not to pleas people
even when you were playing at Arsenal
and you were winning golden boots and
invincibles you were still trying to
please your dad yeah but were you
happy so long you think what you're
doing is to please off football money we
have a roof but then I was about to
leave again my girlfriend the kids
everybody starts to cry and for the
first time I realized they were crying
for me not the football player not the
accolades and I felt human if I was
watching you what would I have seen me
crying almost every day but it was the
young T what was he crying
for quick one this is really really
fascinating to me on the back end of our
YouTube channel it says that
69.9% of you that watch this channel
frequently over the lifetime of this
channel haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button I just wanted to ask you a favor
it helps this channel so much if you
choose to just subscribe helps us scale
the guest helps us scale the production
and it makes this show bigger so if I
could ask you for one favor if you've
watched the show before and you've
enjoyed it and you like this episode
that you're currently watching could you
please hit the Subscribe button thank
you so much and I will repay that
gesture by making sure that everything
we do here gets better and better and
better and better that is a promise I'm
willing to make you do we have a
[Music]
deal to understand a man I
know that you have to understand his
context especially his early context I
think we're all products of our earliest
context I certainly am and having spent
a very small amount of time with you I
know you are as well what is that early
context that people need to know to
understand the man that sits in front of
me
today I will second what you just said I
think need to understand the struggles
of someone to know exactly what the
person is and uh and what a person is
about are so many so many things that we
can we can start with well I grew up in
a in a modest household if I would if I
can say that for me at the time it was
the it was the best because I couldn't
compare it to anything I grew up with
with
diversity I grew up with there is food
on the table so there therefore I love
you I take care of you so therefore I
love you it wasn't so much
uh communicated by Uggs by I Love You by
a well
done more often than not it was more
something that I didn't do that was
raised um being from the
Caribbean my my parents came early to
France which
they call it the continent it is still
France because they are they are French
islands guadaloop and martinque but we
always say going to France it was the
dream for that that era to go to the
continent to go to France to have a
better life uh to try to make sure that
we could have a better life but when
when you when you grew up there you know
you
you you dream of going to France because
it's better because it's it's like in
bracket the American dream which
actually it is the French Dream I'm sure
it was the same for you when you arrive
in in in uh in
France make make sure you don't make any
mistakes make sure they don't come to us
and say oh those guys from the Caribbean
you know they just arrive and you know
so don't don't don't speak real make
sure you speak French well don't do this
don't do that we need to fit in we don't
want to get sent back to to the
Caribbean we want to keep the house that
we have we want to keep the job that we
have always that fear of getting sent
back not so much for me because I I was
born in France but they always had that
chip on their shoulder of make sure you
you don't make any mistakes I don't want
anyone to say that my son was this my
son was that don't bring any problem you
know we we came here to work we came
here to have a better life so please do
not do not spoil it kind of so you
always feel like you need to fit in and
not and not and not uh belong I was uh I
was kind of heavy at one point as a as a
as a young kid you know but that's
that's the way it was you listen to it
you you grow up with it um and you you
just try to to to fit in at one point
what was life like outside of the four
walls that you lived in outside of the
home the streets you grew up
on just a normal neighborhood if I can
use the word normal neighborhood with
everything that goes with with it uh
gangs
drugs
fight happiness
diversity different food different
religions so I always said was the best
for me to understand what the world was
how does it compare to the streets that
your kids are growing up
on what
street the
garden the grass no concrete there now
Jing aside you can't compare it man I
mean but if I had to do it again I would
do it again I'll do it again because he
made me he you know is very diff I can't
even start to even compare anything I
did everything for them not to grow up
there because because you don't want to
grow up there
why
because I didn't want them to go through
that it's weird for me to say that it's
it's kind of a cliche thing to say that
you don't really want to grow up there
if you ask anyone when they can compare
it they're like oh no it's better to to
grow up there it's better to grow up
there but for me like I said I'll do it
again because it made me understand a
lot of things
acceptance uh living with others to
coexist uh in in any way by the way what
you think of what you what you
wear uh what you what how you see the
world for me you know I I couldn't care
less that you know that you know in my
in my class the same thing was syal
malan
Caribbean uh North African Asian Italian
polish Roots Portuguese Roots I couldn't
care less about what you thought or not
I'm like this is my friend do you know
what I mean and and and I traveled also
without
traveling like I went around the world
staying in the same place had all the
food in the world staying in the same
place so this is why I would say it's
kind of a cliche thing to say you don't
want to grow up there but what it gives
you also a what it gives you is second
to none for me in terms
of what you need in order to comprehend
how the world is you described it before
as growing up and only seeing
cement yeah concrete I grew up it's kind
of weird for me to say that Stephen but
if I don't see concrete for more than a
week I don't feel well I know people
like country and Country Life and
Country Life and and and and the seea if
I don't see my my if I don't see
concrete I don't feel well I grew up in
I grew up in it some people will tell
you that I can't see it anymore I need I
need the sea I need I need whatever for
me I'm I'm happy in a town concrete
that's where I grew up uh but yes you
can encounter problems there a lot but
I'll be honest with you I was lucky
enough
I have older brother that's seven years
older than me so his friend him used to
protect me because he was I have the
same age as my
town so I was born in
77 my town was buil in
77 so just imagine my brother arriving
in this town is older than me was the
first one I had a
job the first one obviously I had money
the first one I had a car so it was well
respected
I know it sounds stupid now to say that
but it was well respected so I always
stayed away from from trouble especially
with my parents but also I don't know if
you if you had that but when you have a
certain gift and the guys in the
neighborhood know that you might do
something you're also protected
interesting because they leave this one
alone might he might do something he's
good at football you know so
let him be kind of interesting so had my
brother that also yeah because when you
play football and and you're from a town
and like hey little kid it's from out
out town you know so you have a kind of
a Unwritten protection m in a way
because you might do
it you know you might you might succeed
going back inside your home what was
what was life like inside the walls of
your home I always think that we learn
you you kind of gave a hint to it there
we learn emotion inside the walls of our
home I certainly didn't because there
wasn't a lot of love in my parents'
house in terms of their love with each
other and we weren't necessarily a very
affectionate family so I then struggled
growing up as an adult because I didn't
really learn affection I you know that
that's exactly what I referred to before
no we didn't have that my my parents my
parents already divorced uh when I was
seven
eight so dad left at one point the house
he was present when uh I had to go to
training or games or coming around at
times but he left when I was uh eight so
I technically grew up with my
mom uh but even when they were together
is exactly what you said I didn't see a
lot of love affection hugging uh you
know when I said that I'm not
complaining I'm it wasn't hell please by
any means but it wasn't it wasn't a lot
of love that that side of the of the
emotion I didn't I didn't know it and
even more so when you grew up in this
type of
neighborhood that that amplify also what
was happening at home like it's more of
a be rough anger uh you're the man
you're a man be strong don't cry you
know
uh uh I didn't know how to how to to
open up talking I the problem maybe I
need
help I don't I I didn't know those those
tools I didn't know I didn't have a door
first and foremost to be able to know uh
what it
was I'm sure you understand what I mean
like even until now when I hug my mom is
weird
yeah like and I know people like come on
it's we
you know I I'll uh you know I won't stay
too long if you know what I mean like
I'm I mean maybe I went too far with it
did I go too far you know because I
don't know it stayed it stayed I didn't
know I didn't know how to deal with
that was was I even aware of it it's
when then I went to other people's
houses later on or when you speak with
people and tell you they have
discussions about whatever I'm like what
you guys discuss you
talk all right must be nice not in a bad
way understand me well but that's how it
was you know you get on with it you get
used to it it becomes uh it becomes a
norm who could you speak to back then
nobody but understand me well I didn't
know that I had to speak to people to
feel well I didn't I didn't know
anything else so I can't be sitting here
saying oh I wish I don't wish anything I
just didn't know that when you had a
problem you talk about it whatever it is
you had a fight uh you feel well about
or you were ashamed about you go home
how was your day good how part if you've
been you know something happened and the
Headmaster called at home or whatever it
is and then and then you didn't do your
homework or whatever but if if you ask
me are you okay I'm okay did you get
more attention when things didn't go
well when you were naughty or you know
maybe oh that's also the nor so you get
attention for bad that yeah yeah that
that that was this is where you know
that stayed on with me up until now my
my attention to
details comes from the fact
that it was always what I didn't do that
mattered so if I walk in the room room I
can Str away see what's
wrong never what's good which is I'm
working on it did help me in my life and
it still does help me because I can
assess the situation pretty quick and
see if something's going to go soft or
not
or if there is something wrong or
whatever I will notice it straight
away you know comes with a cost yeah it
does obviously he does but like I said
like I said to youon help myself like it
was always what I didn't do to to
whoever my mom my dad you know it was
tough Caribbean Caribbean way it's just
what you know you didn't do enough you
didn't my dad was very particular at
times on on our as as
um as a as as a player as a as a little
boy it was always like you didn't do
that well so obviously when you hear
that more often and the nut that's what
it's going to stay this is part of the
sort of immigrant Story of Survival when
you come to a new place parents aren't
focused on self-actualization or
happiness or fulfillment they're focused
on you know you better survive and you
better get an education and that they're
they're defense they're almost in
defense mode you got to fit yeah you got
to fit so make sure you you know it's
going to be it is a cliche thing and I'm
sure you heard it at home is gonna
be twice as out for you to get a job so
you grew up with
that grew up with oh I can't make any
mistakes where did football come into
this oh I early dolls dolls my my
dad this is and I said it so many times
this is exactly what he said the first
time he took me in his arm he didn't say
as people joke about it up until now
because that story it's it's known but I
didn't say that you know my God he looks
like me or he looks it doesn't look like
me or he has a big forehead or massive
lips or a big nose or whatever you say
oh my god oh is it's not a good-looking
one or you know
whatever it it the first thing he did
say is he put me in the air this is what
my uncle and mount said uh he
said this baby will be an amazing
football
player this is what he said and I know
people would say yeah right this is
exactly what he
said and he puts me down and he put me
down how do you feel about
that weird because you
know weird and and happy and at times
why and thank
God
but I wish and I will
explain because after that you can
imagine what comes next he's going to
fulfill the
prophecy so what come next is that I was
programmed to
[Music]
succeed so
whatever what what was going to happen
was always going to happen you
know he he took me on the field I was
maybe five six
to it's funny how you don't remember
stuff at times that early but I do
remember the first time he took me on
the field just to just to strike the
ball just to strike the ball just to
strike the ball and that's about it and
from that point it was always a mission
I was on the
mission to to to fulfill his dream to to
to please him
to and by the way don't get me
wrong at the time I don't know how much
I liked it
I I I cannot I don't know all I knew is
I didn't hate
it was it your choice definitely not my
choice early do what what choice do you
have anyway when you're young if your
mom wants to play piano it's at one
point you turn and you go like hey I
I've had enough of the piano or you I've
had enough of the guitar I've had enough
of of Judo or I've had enough of track
and field mom you know but this is what
I'm saying
whether I thought about it or I didn't
think about it could
I could I have
said that I didn't want it you know when
he picked you up as a baby and said this
baby is going to be an amazing football
player do you wish he said something
else It's just tough one I don't know I
don't know because look at where I am
look at what what happened
[Music]
uh do you wish he added a
sentence honestly it's
just it's
just when you hear what he
said that will you can understand in a
way exactly or what we're going to talk
about obviously do I wish that he said
something
else not at that moment knowing my dad
but do I wish that he he he behave a
certain way after yes but what he said
is what he said you know some people
said different different stuff and and
he didn't have an impact on your life or
not we're talking about it because I
became a football player or maybe if I
didn't I wouldn't have been here to tell
you my story also so no what he said
it's okay it's what came after that had
an impact uh um um on on me he takes you
out into the pitch you're five or six
years old he gets you doing practice of
kicking the ball kicking the ball I'm
assuming at this time because he's
divorced your mother your relationship
with him the center of your relationship
sort of has this gravitates around
football that is the relationship mainly
I
know that's you know apart from holidays
and and and you know I'm I'm going to
see him in cuz one point he went he went
back to live in in guadaloop so I'm
going to see him back there or I know I
was saying him about the weekend or he's
coming to get me for training so it's
it's it's even a it's like a double
thing I know I seem a lot thanks to
football and I know if I want to make
him happy it will be through football
how how how did you know that well first
of most because he said it and I knew
what he said I knew what he said said
because everyone told me after what he
said and the way he behaved I knew like
if I if I want to make him happy it can
only be that and you wanted to make him
happy yeah it's it's it's uh I think we
had a we had a discussion I talked about
it but uh yeah it's it's I always say
and I think I said it what you fear will
Master you
so my fear and and and and what was the
most difficult thing for me to do as as
a man and as a player ever was to please
my dad that was the hardest thing I had
to deal with to please my dad
and as you can imagine I heard it
after Cherry you great or my God or my
this or my that or from everybody or
whatever but the little me never heard
it it was always what I didn't do so
obviously you you all you you you always
trying to
to to to get the the nud the approval
the you were great oh you know you
you're progressing or it's always no you
miss this or you miss that or so for a
very long
time up until not that long
ago always my thing was to please
people because I never got that access
that access was never granted when I was
young
on that subject understand well on that
subject I was always looking for that
approval
which when I was young never
came at that age do you then almost
without knowing it start to associate
your sense of self your sense of worth
with your performance on the pitch
because that's it sounds like your your
father maybe intentionally or
unintentionally has programmed this
belief into you that if you do well on
the pitch then you are
worthy or you're lovable I I I didn't
even think about anything else than
pleasing him I wasn't even thinking
about what he can do for me after but
because I was always trying to do that
then he carried on with everything I
never wanted to let my teammates down I
always wanted to please them I always
wanted to please the fans I always
wanted to please because I grew up with
wanting to please him so I never stopped
you're looking for for something that
came from obviously what happened to you
young so he helped me because at one
point he works he works with with
sports because it's great to stay on
your you know to to stay grounded it's
another day and it to be the best so
that that at one point connected well
but technically he didn't help the
little me or he didn't help so much the
human being being it did to a degree
help the the
athlete because he works like don't be
you know too too satisfied with what you
have tomorrow is another day you need to
be good again so I was like okay I need
to I need to be the best I need to
please everybody again today I need to
you know my happiness and my sadness is
was always through
people cuz I didn't know I didn't know
you know what used to make me side on
that side it was always through you know
like y you said oh no you happy yeah you
know but me I was always like kind of I
won't say dead the word is not dead but
expressing my feelings was very
difficult apart rage and
anger rage and anger is
easy why because the same it's something
that I didn't
do so I'm I'm getting upset so it gives
me fuel
always he helped the athlete but he
didn't help the human no what was the
human missing what should he have given
about everything the human being was
missing almost
everything but you need to understand s
like i s to I left my house I was
13 you know people don't realize that
who are you who are you at 13 years old
you leave your
house and you you already dealing with
the pressure of succeeding because you
you you're trying to enter CL Fontaine
so already here is competition what is
clar Fontaine for people that don't know
G is a it's a preschool
preformation you you you have to pass
four so one weekend you come they take
the best 20 then they do the same in
around not far from Paris then the
weekend after that you have the 20 from
that place 20 from that place 20 from
Paris then you bring it down to 40 you
bring it out to 20 and eventually
obviously the 20 goes to that school of
clar fontain to teach you how to play
football and you go to school from by
the way 8 to 3 after that you play
football for people that don't know as
well because I was reading about CLE
Fontaine is it's considered to be the
elite sort of Academy in France I read
that around 1,600 trial for the program
and out of which 23 are selected per
year yeah yeah so that's this is like
the SAS of football in France it is it
is and a lot of players came from there
me if I give you me anela mbappe Galas
you know we we you know Pap I don't know
if you remember Pap but a lot of players
came from from that Academy so my friend
in the in our team here is French and he
was with with us in Paris when we when
we first met and he said if you go to
Clair Fon your chance of becoming a
professional footballer is like 95% it's
like 90% it's like that's the elite yes
but in the 95 yeah you have a chance but
not a lot of those guys it's still very
minimum the guys that made it
interesting the guys that went there
still very minimum this is why you know
the usual 2% succeed in 1998 don't you
know to be part of the
2% it's very difficult but to go back to
what we were
saying it does have an impact on a human
being because you didn't have a a a
normal
uh young life you it's not the same what
you expose to right from the start is
very difficult to deal with there was no
time to be a child it sounds like no not
at all and like I said you don't think
about it you think I think about it now
this is why I said to you I can now see
that the human being is missing a lot
have you learned a lot of these insights
from watching your kids get to just
playing be kids
um as I use that line often you know I
got educated and my kids are re
educating me you know uh my kids
uh save me they all saving me every day
every day I see something new that
teaching me to be a dad a better dad not
a better dad and my dad this is what I'm
saying myself a better dad and and they
open
doors that I that I I didn't know how to
deal with you know it's it's it's it's
it's
very you know sometimes when you
like I can see sometimes when they look
at me how much they love me and how much
like they they they like oh that but if
they only knew actually I look at them
the same way you know thanks for being
here because because it would have been
tough cuz I you know as an as an an
athlete as long as you stay within that
frame you can feed whatever you need to
feed to satisfy that little that little
thing that you have your ego your your
your avoiding your
problems distract because because you
prefer to be the athlete than the human
being because then the athlete it's
easier you know what to do well I knew
what to do even if it was painful
whatever I knew what to do
this is why when you go
there so it's easy for a little while
when you have your
career but I think I think you remember
that as an as as a as an athlete and and
I say it and I will maintain it you die
when you
stop the athlete a competitor
dies I can never play again in the Prem
I can never play for France anymore I
don't care what people say you can play
football not at that level not competing
the way I used to compete and not part
of me died so people don't teach you to
die so now you are going to face all
your
problems because you could put them on
the side because you're playing games
because you have other things that will
cover that but once once everything
stops we're not used to be at
home we're not used to deal with a
normal life since I'm 13 I never had a
normal life understand me well I'm not
complaining I'm just saying to go back
like to the to the real world it's a
it's a shock to the system because
you're actually technically not equipped
to live in that world it's an
interesting comparison to make but when
you hear people talk in these terms you
think of someone that had been
incarcerated in jail or you think of
someone that went off to maybe the
military and then returned after War to
a normal life and couldn't sort of
acclimatize to what it meant to just sit
in silence Alone um and in many respects
although those examples are quite
extreme in many cases your experience of
going being a football player since sort
of five years old being drafted into
this Elite Academy at 13 years old and
then spending the rest of your career in
sort of
Institutions where it high performance
institutions where as you say like you
were distracted from having to think
about being a human and you were an
athlete your identity was an athlete
your expectations were based on being an
athlete your sense of validation came
from being an athlete and
suddenly
boom it's over
look actors
often go into depression or problem when
they go into a character for a
movie because at one point they don't
know who they are anymore they they
become that character so when you put
that Cape as a
player for more than 20 years and you
have to be what you have to be for
people because you might transcend them
because of what you transmit the feeling
that you have of your club and with the
fans that that that that you know that
almost like you're like yeah I belong
when I had to fit in for a very long
time now I belong when that
goes can't wear that Cape
anymore and when you wear that Cape you
feel
different
responsibilities performing losing
winning doesn't matter but you know the
next day what you need to do in order to
compete put the cape on when you leave
that Cape it's like you're
naked like oh wait I'm going to ADM it
now they see my weakness they see my
things you see your weakness you feel
build it it's different you know when
it's it's like whatever it is for you
that when you put your cap you're like
okay you know put it down you're like oh
I don't like I like I don't like that so
much you know so how do you deal with
that this why I mean when I say you die
obviously is strong understand me well
with what's happening in the world at a
minute maybe it is strong to say but
that part of me died never come back
that can never come back a singer can
sing
can have you can have your concert up
until I can't I can't I can't play
anymore have to deal with
that and and
that it's tough to deal with it's tough
to deal with because that that's your
medicine you can't take it
anymore so there's another life there's
obviously it's not the end uh but you
need to to to learn how to be at
home to connect with your mes to connect
with with your kids because the way of
connecting before was very
minimal when you think about it you
never at
home so now you you you arrive at home
when you stop your career you're like a
guest well that's what you do you guys
when I used to
play you know it's it's not understand
me well I'm not complaining I'm not
saying you know people have you know I
understand I'm just trying to explain
what I went through what I'm going
for arson became it seems from reading
your story a bit of a substitute father
for you at one point when you moved to s
Monaco after C font yeah so you were 17
years old when you moved there Aron's
the manager at um Monaco at the
time does he because this relationship
you have with arson
it you know that time you go off to
Monaco I think there's a little bit of a
sort of a disconnect from your father in
some way is that accurate uh to yeah
yeah
well the thing is uh how do you tell
your dad that that he needs to step
aside in order for
me to have my career it's my life when
he did everything for you at that moment
as a dad by the way but how how do you
make him understand and now I needs to
fly I need to fly alone is that a
conversation is it no it wasn't a
conversation no it wasn't that that that
that that never happened it
just I made him I made him
understand you made him understand yeah
the look the the the the the you
know making you know making sure that he
was understanding that he couldn't come
anymore but you know if he's asking me
for some tickets I wasn't maybe sending
them at times or stuff like that you
know because
talking what
stuff so you indirectly yeah you do you
do you do no it's not it's not rejecting
but it was it was too much at one point
what was too much but the pressure of of
of pleasing him the constant he was
always there which was good don't get me
wrong but it's like for everybody you're
not going to be always on top of your
kids in whatever because at the end of
the day you you you you don't help
them I needed to make mistakes by myself
have you got specific memories of when
you thought you played well but he
just oh so many I mean it's that one
also is very famous in France people
still talk to me about it they still
when they see me the three they said the
name of the team that I played against
yeah it's a very famous one it's true
story uh we played the game I was uh 15
uh already then you can see if someone
is kind of good or not good uh we won a
game six nil I scored the six goals and
on no way back you know so I step I step
out of the um of the game and I knew I'm
sure you the
same if I'm if I was like this I swear
believe you believe me or you don't
believe me the aura of my dad I knew
even with about looking at him if if if
the man was happy or not so if you
turned around you feel even before like
it was that powerful you could just feel
his energy feel it and he wasn't happy I
I I turn and I saw it I could I can tell
you any posture and I knew if if he was
happy not happy or
or or whatever so we arrive in the car
you know
silence so I'm
like shall I talk shall I not
talk
okay like you know so yeah we this
exactly how we
were so it goes like you're
happy so I'm like what shall I
answer
yeah yeah but you shouldn't because you
missed that you missed that thing you
missed that control you missed that
cross you missed that this you missed
that that you missed that then I arrive
at my mom's house I always remember he
dropped me at my mom's
house I go up and I'm walking like this
my mom is like did you lose I said no we
won six nil and I scored the six
goals and then she looked at me going
in it was often like that why why was he
doing that in your view I don't know
like I always say you know what I try to
uh came to you know to come to terms
with it um but you need to understand
something
like my dad never read my dad never
traveled my dad knows only one way his
way and what is been told and if if I
compare what how I've been brought up to
how is been brought up there a world so
for him he
already you know put that down so you
can't you can't be upset with someone
that tries to do his best and educate
you with his tools I don't have the same
tools my box of tools has more tools and
my kids would have more tools than me so
you can't you can't you know you can't
be upset with that one you have to come
to to terms with how it was that's how
it was
now you need to accept
it but digesting it is when it becomes
tricky because you can always accept
everything but the impact that he has on
you after it's on you to deal with that
the values he he gave you and you learn
growing up up until you you know you
ultimately move on to you know in
Arsenal the values that made you
successful in hindsight when you look
back what are those values that are
transferable to any industry or any
discipline that put you where you are
because listen you know
people people can be born with great
genetics they can be born with whatever
but that isn't enough it's been proven
time and time again that that isn't
enough to reach the highest of the highs
and have a statue of yourself you know
over there in
London there's got to be a mindset
character or values underneath there
that
creates that
Legend that's so many things but that I
understood and there's so you know you
talk about Al you a lot of guys that I
came uh across in my career helped me
develop something that was in me I do
believe that we always always have we
all have something in now are we going
to develop it it's a different ball
game as you know my upbringing was rough
strict um but it it can go both ways
yeah can make you or break you I decided
it was going to make me but I had to put
my dad on the side at one point I had to
put everybody on the side at one point
and concentrate to the path now we're
talking about it's a different it's a
different topic now we're going to talk
about what I became and the in bracket
the animal I became came on I was a
player that's that's a different ball
game that comes with seeing Dennis bamp
every morning working hard that comes
with seeing all those players at one
stuff working out and I'm looking at it
and I'm like how am I going to move
those
guys if you add obviously what my dad
gave me never be satisfied do
more it's always what you didn't do well
you know obviously had a certain
attribute I was fast that's the only
attri with I had when I was young I was
fast you have guys that are technical or
see the game or whatever awareness or
whatever I was just fast so I had to
work really hard and I know people would
say oh my god get that cliche sentence
no I had to work really hard every day
my le my left foot was
poor uh Ed forget about it and he still
I still didn't manage to to be better
during my career I got a tiny bit better
but I work free kick I going to take a
free kick uh uh anything you know
repetition is key repetition always
creates habit you know so I
knew I knew I wasn't as gifted as so
many players although I did everything
that you're supposed to do I went to
Clon I play under 15 France under 16
under the 17 under 18 under 19 under 21
first team so people when they see my
path they always go like yeah I mean
natural it was always going to no not
true not true I always had to battle but
when you know that the hardest thing
that I had to do was to please my dad
the rest was nothing for me in bracket
not disrespecting anything that happened
in my career but that was so easy
compared to what I had to do in order to
please the the old man and my young self
is still waiting for that approval still
yeah I'm trying to connect with the
little man it's said you know I'm going
to a different discussion now but I'm
still trying I'm trying to connect with
the the little man but you go back I go
back too sorry to what you asked me what
did it teach me is obviously to never
give up do more but there's something
that was
missing that I understood
late and I think for me the best leader
you can be need the leader or the
greatest leader do have that and I was
missing that for a very long time which
in in sport because you have to play a
game and you have to you're not here to
you know oh you have a problem or let's
have a talk about it you know when you
play you play it stuff during a season
is stuff during a game and stuff but
vulnerability and empathy was
missing those are the two greatest point
of the leader for me when you show
vulnerability and obviously you show
empathy you you you can go places you
can go places because if your group
knows that you're like them and they can
relate although you might be as you can
you might be hard as you know
what they they will follow you but in
football because of how it is because it
is taboo sometime to be vulnerable it is
taboo to show emotion you know the
emotion that emotion the crying the this
the that especially in my time in a
dressing room you couldn't say anything
it's a bit more accepted now if you say
I'm not well mentally is is and and and
and thank God for that by the way uh but
all the above that that you can imagine
for me it was always trying to be the
best version that I can be every day did
you think you were going to be the
player you become no how do how do you
how do
you how do you look look I just wanted
to please my dad how am I going to think
that I you fast forward are going to
have a statue in front of the the the
Emirates I mean how even when you were
playing at Arsenal and you were winning
them golden boots and you were winning
everything and the invincibles and all
of that you were still trying to please
your dad at your core in a way yeah I
couldn't see it that constant look of to
not name a movie The postet of happiness
or the the the pursuit of pleasing
people I love that movie so I um
um yeah but I what that that that was my
that what that's it's kind of weird when
I always say when your your medicine is
your poison because you always chase
that were you happy
um I don't know I never asked myself
that question I couldn't care
less I just couldn't care less like you
saw it you I mean you saw me play so I
couldn't care less you saw me I my face
was always hard was always you know I
could smile it's funny I always say and
this is why I always said to people and
in France they used to have a go at me
because I never used to celebrate my
goals I always used to stand in a stoic
manner way or you know always proud or
or rage but people never used to see
when I used to give an assist I always
used to
smile please
watch assist smile goal
rage sweetd but pleasing again giving
was always always always smiling you see
even now I smile but goal no goal was
just like that's what you had to do man
because you're making the player that
you've given the goal happy I guess
you're giving them it's interesting
because people who grew up in
environments where they had a parent or
parents that they were trying trying to
please often tend to exhibit two traits
one of them is being an empath with the
term empath is like being so emotionally
sensitive to how everyone's feeling in
every room all the time because that
started as a young age with you know con
you know and then the second is people
pleasing and it they always say people
pleases start with trying to please one
or more of their parents and it's funny
there's a cliche about comedians right
comedians whenever I sit with a comedian
the question is always which one of your
parents was
depressed which one of the parents were
you trying to put smile on their face
and this is cliche that comedians are
depressed whereas when I've interviewed
comedians they say no no no no no it's
my dad that was depressed and at four I
was trying to make him smile and I and
it's and that's and it's so interesting
that in your case as well it was a very
similar thing this question
though like all these great achievements
you know won the World Cup you know the
Invincible Team all these Trophies the
height the the peak of your powers and
you can't tell me whether you were happy
or not
no no because for me I did what I had to
do when you went home though when you
went home after a great game you get
home if I'm a fly on the wall in that
room do I see a man that's
happy yes for a little while and then
you because that's how the game is you
know I was talking about gichi which is
my assistant and you know played at Man
City and and Arsenal with
me the other day we were in Camp with
the national team obviously being my
assistant said to me cherry do you
remember what you did one day I'm like
I'm like I don't know man said we won
the league so he won the league with us
when we stayed
[Music]
Invincible he said to
me okay uh where where is the party
tonight we going and everything so I'm
not going to to no party tonight
he said yeah but everybody's going I
said yeah I'm not
everybody stay home he said why said we
have the Euro going home everyone went
to the party I didn't so understand for
me it was like Hey I have the
Euro just the next thing yeah so you you
you tend at one point not to enjoy it
while you're
playing that was my way was the way or
not I don't know but it was mine so girl
was like you were crazy I said I don't
know if I was crazy but that's how it
was for me I have the Euro I need to
concentrate for the Euro so I didn't go
which time can be seen as a guy that
keep himself to himself or doesn't want
to belong in the team well I surely did
when I was on the
field for me that's the only thing that
matters are you going to cover me we
don't have to be we don't have to be
friends after
that it goes back to what you were Tau
to Value though you went taught to Value
party celebration happiness you were
taught to
Value performance on the pitch you have
to perform and so I said to you when you
put that Cape that's what is asked of
you
then when I arve towards the end of my
career I realized something I was big
and something I was missing is I always
thought that titles mattered and yes
they do but I always thought that that's
the only thing that mattered when it's
not true it's not true is how you is how
you as I mentioned before is how you
transcend and what you can transmit and
also how you inspire people that
matters and I never took I never thought
about it when I was playing again
because I didn't have those tools
also when you went off to when you went
off to Barcelona an adjustment period
took place and you were married at the
time and then you went through a divorce
this question of love comes back into
the picture you know if you'd grown up
in that household where your parents got
divorced when you were seven or eight
years
old you know you look back who taught
you and then you were in Academy at 13
so you get married the marriage falls
apart when you're in
Barcelona who taught you how to be in a
relationship nobody with a love woman
nobody you you deal with it you learn
you
fail
uh again you know you you mentioned it I
arrive at Barcelona I arrive injured I
was divorcing adapting to a new life new
language new team new way of playing
people don't
care I don't I don't ask people to Care
by the way because that's how it is but
it's not easy it was stuff it was stuff
don't see you don't see you know I
couldn't see my daughter for a little
while you know and people expect you to
perform so what do you do you put the
cap
on put the cape on because that's the
only way so okay you put the cape on
you're like okay and you do feel that
everything goes away it's a feeling
though it's an impression it's a lie but
when I put that cape
on I feel like you can't see that I'm
hurt I feel like you don't see because
now people see the player so in a in a
in a in a weird way you want people to
know and you want people to know how you
feel that you're not equipped right now
to
perform and in in in the same time you
you put it on because you don't want
them to know you understand what I mean
it's it's kind of way you're like you
know what let me put the cape on and
then they will attack the player you
want help but you don't want to ask for
help you do but you don't it's kind of
weird you you want you want someone to
go like oh this is what's happening to
him and you're like thank you but you
don't want to say it what were the
symptoms you said the word hurt if I
again if I was a fly on the wall in that
room in Barcelona when you were alone
what was going on in your head well just
imagine I like to please people and
everything everywhere was a no no I
wasn't playing well you're divorcing so
you you I'm feeling I'm letting my
daughter down I'm listen the fans down I
listen letting my friends down myself
down everybody down just imagine how I
am on wanting to please
people and it wasn't
happening
so
tough cap on cap
off tough but the easiest way to deal
with it was to put the cape on when the
cape's not on what are your thoughts
saying to at that
time what you kind of as a human being
like did I make the right choice
[Music]
uh you know and I said it I think
that par moment football wasn't really
my priority if the cap wasn't on
obviously but when the even before when
the cap wasn't on was still football you
need to rest you need to this you need
to that but there it wasn't because it's
it's actually technically and this is
not me having a go at my dad or the
relationship or or anything but I was
like you know when swear that if you get
married you never get divorced because
you know and you you know very little
about life
obviously and I was like I know this is
exactly what happened to me or what's
happening to me what are you doing
you're repeating yeah to yourself like
you know you you kind of
like what are you doing this is why I
said I say it so many times and I will
say it again my biggest fear is not to
be a good dad and and so I was go in my
mind that doesn't mean it's not because
you're going to divorce you're going to
be a bad dad but in my mind I'm letting
people down I'm a bad dad I'm a bad
whatever you understand what I mean my
way of thinking I'm lying that's my
biggest fear still still now is to to to
to you know cuz I'm learning to be a
dad like everybody by the way because
you know that's that's but
you know some dolls I didn't have some
emotions I didn't have I wasn't often at
home and still not often at
home as you know this podcast is
sponsored by and people often ask me
why I chose whoop over all of the
possible wearable options and I've tried
many of them but whoop for me stands out
for several reasons a because of its
non-invasive design B Because of its
unique analytics and C a membership
model that continually evolves with with
the product but the biggest game changer
for me which is reason D is wop's
ability to Foster meaningful Behavior
change for me with whoop I've been more
attuned than ever before on how my daily
activities can impact my sleep and
stress levels and their features like
the whoop coach feature which they
recently announced and the journal and
the weekly planner Have Been
instrumental in helping me to maintain
health and fitness habits that I
previously struggle to achieve
consistency with if you're looking to
improve your health and fitness this
year Beyond January then you've got to
give whoop a try go to join. woop.com
CEO and you'll be able to get whoop for
30 days risk-free with zero commitment
and let me know how you get on as you
guys know I'm a big fan of hu I'm an
investor in the company and they sponsor
this podcast and what I've done for you
is I've put together for those people
especially that haven't yet tried hu but
for all of those also that have but
haven't tried my favorite products I put
together what I call the hule Steven
bundle which is a selection of my
favorite products from hu including the
Black Edition salted caramel flavor
which is super high in protein and has
17 servings per container the bundle
also comes with their ready to drink
product which is one of my all-time
favorite products from hu it is
convenient it is nutritionally complete
and on those days when my life just gets
very very busy it is my go-to product
you've got your heu bars which are
absolutely gorgeous and in there you
also get this incredible t-shirt which
is apparently according to lots of my
friends the best quality t-shirt they've
ever had and I don't really know why but
there's something about this t-shirt
that's incredible flattering this Shu
Shaker the link is in the description
below in this podcast episode wherever
you're listening to it there'll be a
Stevens bundle link and check it out
back to the episode when did
you what was the moment when you
realized that you're playing Korea was
behind you you know you obviously went
off to America um for a while and then
it you transferred to the New York Red
Bulls and then you retired at sort of 37
years old but was there a moment where
you realized a day where you thought do
you know what I'm I'm not going to be on
the pitch as a professional player
anymore oh yeah there was a day uh and
you might laugh but my daughter was at
home in New York I suffered of Achilles
problem for more than 10 years both side
uh as it was I was in pain every morning
really pain pain was never going away
all day both side both of
myties uh just I just some sometimes I
felt a bit better sometimes no but every
morning I was in pain afternoon night
for 10 years so I'm at home with my
daughter and she comes she comes close
to me and she touches me and she goes
you it and she
ran I wanted to run I
couldn't I wanted to run I couldn't I
looked at her I said hey you won I
couldn't chase her and I stopped I went
what are you
doing like I couldn't I just couldn't I
I'm not even joking Stephen I I she run
and I just couldn't move what are you
doing that's when I knew I couldn't
handle pain anymore because this is why
it is people forget about anything that
you can think of you need to love pain
to be an
athlete and I know no pain know this
whatever all the you know the oh my no
this is real you need to love
pain however mentally physically love it
you need to love it if not stay where
you
are and then you retire eventually at 37
years old from professional
football what happens
then
I I was in a way happy I'll tell you why
because because I
stopped some people stopped because of
injuries some people stopped because of
different stuff I
stopped it was on my terms I stopped you
know it's better than people were like
Cher you still can play oh I knew I
could still play but I stopped so I
didn't have a problem with
stopping like you know when you know the
fear that day I didn't have a problem
with that but I didn't know what going
to to come after you prepare yourself
you pass your badges you you know you
prepare yourself mentally and
whatnot but then how do you fit the
competitor how do you fit the guy that
loves to
please when he can do it or not every 3
days
how when did
you know that you were
struggling when I
wasw
because the cape was always my
thing to make sure that I when I felt
the struggle coming
Cape
so I knew it before but I was lying to
myself or I was going to make sure that
that feeling wasn't going to go too
far so I put the cape on
but then when you're not a player
anymore you can't put that Cape anymore
so then everything starts to crep in you
know you think you go back to what
happened what you became are you were
with people are you behave with people
were you a good guy not a good guy was
it necessary sometime not necessary you
start to re to replay everything in your
head on how you were what you did and
pack you had on people the P that you
had on
yourself what type of person you want to
be for your kids and that's when it
becomes scary because you don't have the
answers because usually have the answers
for
everything Theory tomorrow or that guy
okay I'm going to work out on that work
on this going to be better next weekend
I going to work on this I'm going to
work on that don't worry about it going
to work you know what next year next
year you'll see I come back my left foot
going to be sound my this my this my
this my that I had
answers now all I had is
questions that's about it too many
questions brain thinking other thinking
and when you other think usually you
don't go to the positive thinking when
you overthink you you you tend to bring
yourself down and and whatever wasn't
good uh uh in your life you you you try
to find way to make sure that you you
can cover it but cap wasn't around
anymore so how do you do that were you
sad no sad no no sad sad would not be
the the word I wasn't sad but I was
trying to find an explanation of of what
happened to me regardless of why it is
because I'm a guy that likes to have an
explanation I need I need to know why
and when you
cannot answer it it is it is KN I find
that not knowing when I cannot and and
not everything has an explanation but
this is the way I am I always need to
have a logical or illogical explanation
even if your explanation is not logical
explain something to me so when I cannot
understand and comprehend what's
happening to me it's the tough one
what's happening to you in that moment
post retirement or what happened to you
in your career everything everything
came at once especially uh during covid
time
because that's when I really stopped
because again I was trying to find a way
to find that Cape so you pass your your
badges you you becoming a coach you try
to do something to make sure that you're
not going to to to think about what's
been chasing me for a very long time
when are you going to deal with what
happened to you whatever it is to you to
me to whoever but we we we we tend to
run instead of facing our problems
that's what we do all the time you stay
busy you you try to avoid the problem or
not think about it uh but then Co
happened and when Co
happened what are you running why are
you running what are you doing was uh
you know isolated in uh in uh Montreal
for a year um not for a year I would say
you know whenever the you know threee mo
and another two Mo and whatever it was
and not being able to see my kid kids
for a year was
tough was tough because but I mean it's
a title right so I don't I don't need to
even explain that one um but yeah it was
tough because it had to something like
that had to happen to me for me to
understand vulnerability empathy
crying uh you know understand that
emotions are emotion just don't become
it uh you know it's you know anger is
normal
uh jealousy is normal but don't become
jealous anger is normal don't become
angry you know I couldn't I couldn't
like if I before if I if I feel anger
man I become angry if I was a again the
question I asked earlier if I was a fly
on the wall in quarantine watching
you what would I have seen me
crying almost every day for no reason
tears were coming
alone why I don't know but maybe they
were waiting for they were there for a
very long
time was crying for
everything everything I'm watching a
movie that's not even really sad but I'm
crying you know everything I don't know
if that needed to come out I don't know
if you know was weird in a good way in a
good way that there was some stuff that
I couldn't
control and to be fair I didn't try to
control them and that's you know and I
couldn't couldn't hide them I couldn't
surpress them and do you want even to
surpress them really you know but you've
been told since you're young whe if it
was at home or in your job don't be that
guy man don't show that you're You're
vulnerable if you if you cry what what
they're going to think which
is it's not the end of the world
but for me like if if if I when I was
young I saw someone crying what are you
doing man you know I'm like
really type of thing so it was yeah you
would have seen me crying you would have
seen
me technically it wasn't me it was it
was the young
me it was me understand what I'm saying
but it was the Young The Young ter
there what was he crying for well for
everything he didn't get I approval it's
kind of weird to say that approval I got
that I still get that all the time but I
didn't want to hear
it you know it wasn't it wasn't like it
was coming but not feeding my little man
so my little man I want point to control
of that body and and it was tough you
know you need to have the balance this
is what I'm trying to do now to have the
balance between me and and my inner
child which is not an easy one this is
why I always say to people once you have
the that discussion with that little guy
inside you it's scary
man it is scary because what he going to
tell you is everything that you didn't
want to hear or trying to avoid for a
very long time and he took
control and what did he tell
you just be be yourself be human show
you are
really stop fronting stop lying because
we're Liars
we pretend we live in a world right
where let's all be honest we live in the
world where we've both been told do not
judge the book by his cover right we do
the total opposite every day we do the
total opposite go and try to find a job
with a
tracksuit and you arrive with your hood
on walk in and see if they're going to
receive you but we've been told since
we're young right Stephen do not judge
the book by his cover that's a lie
that's all we do
our appearances matter and then we keep
on saying to our kids no the L doesn't
matter
really Luke doesn't matter let's all be
honest it does we want to pretend or
think that you've been we are saying the
right things because it looks cool but
when it comes to do
it it's a different story it is a
different story look we we we go we go
you know this is why I like the movie
Black Black Panther you know when when
when he's in the museum and the girl
says what are you doing here I said
that's from my Village what are you
talking
about we have stuff that have been in
the world stolen for however however it
was however it happened or whatever that
are in museum that that that maybe you
from that part and you can't go in
because you're not dressed well or
because and people are making money out
of those things and you know what are we
doing what are we talking about and we
sitting here trying to say all the time
pretending or whatever it is it's a bit
all falls so we you tag along you play
the game but that that has an impact I
remember the first time I experienced
something that would be considered a
mental health issue and I remember the
the almost the shame I felt because I
never thought that as a young CEO at the
of 21 I always had to be the tough guy
but also I always thought those mental
health challenges happened to other
people so there was almost a bit
of struggle with my own sort of Shame
and accepting my own vulnerability that
and like do I talk to someone about this
or do I keep it to myself when you're in
that room in covid and you're crying
every day and you don't know why at that
point do you have someone that you can
talk to about how you're feeling truly
and be 100% honest with how you're
feeling all these years later you must
have been what 40 40 in your 40s yeah it
was 2020
yeah it's
look it's tough it's tough
[Music]
because you know I'm trying to bring
myself
there
um it's very difficult cuz
I I don't know who the wom the the the
human being was like I I I don't know I
just didn't know like I said to you I go
back I didn't have those doors I didn't
have those tools I didn't I didn't know
uh I I I just didn't know everything was
new for me that part of my body those
dolls that I didn't have before the
understanding of the that side of the of
the of the of the game want I say the
game talking about life obviously uh
dealing with uh love and and it was we
weird weird my my my way of dealing with
love was like you know like I said
pleasing again like you know giving
present to people oh my God I'm happy
then I asked myself that question what
makes you happy
Cherry what makes you
happy obviously my kids but again it's
my kids what makes you happy at zero
answer zero so you know when
you it's kind of weird because
I when you look at it this is this is
what I would like to achieve but it's is
virtually impossible whether you act
with your brain or you act with your
heart and at times both feels good
especially with your heart because it
brings different emotions and when you
act with your brain is a bit more no I'm
not doing it here is like let's let's
let's see what's going to happen right
right but both if you can balance right
your thoughts and the way you act and
you can walk on the on on the Rope you
know like the funer we call them tight
rope tight rope yes and you are walking
on
there in harmony with your inner child
connected
balancing decision with your heart and
decision with your brain that will me
the that's in my head the image of the
perfect human
being you walking on a tight rope with
your inner child balancing decision with
your brain and with your heart because
if you go too much that that side you're
going to fall although you are in
harmony with your inner child if you go
that way you're also going to fall which
we all know it's impossible
but that's you know so I had to in my
head create that picture that I have the
tattoo of it by the way but I had to
create that picture in order to see what
I'm Hing
for I need to I needed that I needed
something you know before I was you're
trying to please your dad whether I was
aware or not aware of it doesn't matter
it was in me what am I trying to do now
what is it so I had to draw something
in that room did you know if I was in a
room in Co in the pandemic and I'd been
you know this Superstar athlete and then
I find myself in the situation where I'm
crying in the hotel or in the in the in
the
room are you self- diagnosing do you
understand what that is at the
time no but I had to do
it
so do the body the body
okay the body does heal
itself whether if it's going to be
beautiful or not it will eventually in a
certain way heal itself and even if you
walk in a weird way after you will walk
your body will readjust or not why can
you not heal yourself alone mentally to
a certain degree because you need help I
understand
that but this is what I'm saying if you
Expos to something
for so long it would have an impact on
you but it somehow along the way you did
adapt to it like you will adapt to
living in a hot country or in a cold
country I go and said how can you live
here you're like I grew up here man so I
got used to it that doesn't mean it's
okay but you do in a way adapt to it or
you learn how to live with it or you
don't so I did learn how to live live
with it with a lot of impact on me as
you can see a lot of consequences that
I'm still trying to deal with but yes I
do you do self deal with it or self
diagnose yourself without realizing it
did you it sounds like you were
struggling with a form of depression
when you were in that phase of your life
did you know that that's what it was no
and did you that's impossible I I don't
know I didn't know in hindsight do you
think that's what it was I would like to
think so
but how do I know cuz I don't know the
signals like I cannot tell you that I
was or wasn't I don't know the
signals like I don't know said to me
right now I don't know like if you give
me any other
signals not any of let me tell you anger
this and that yeah yeah I was angry man
yeah were you I'm like but how you've
heard people characterize it now and
describe it now does that yeah it does
ring a Bell more than the Bell but was
it you know I'm look I'm a human being
so I have
feelings throughout my career and since
I was born I must have been in
depression did I know it
no did I do something about it obviously
no but I
adapted to a certain way that doesn't
mean I'm walking
straight but I'm walking you gota you
got to put one foot and another one and
walk that's that's what I've been told
since I'm young and it doesn't matter
where you're from it doesn't matter what
you do it doesn't matter your your job
you got to walk you got to stand no
matter how the the rough the sea is
whatever it is you got to stand and
walk and and people have a you know way
out life than than I obviously but I'm
just saying it doesn't matter you have
to get up and walk so do do I realize
because I never stopped walking then
maybe I would have realized Co I stopped
walk uh
walking cuz I couldn't put a
foot after and again I couldn't I just
couldn't Ste so that's why I was like oh
I need to pose then you start to realize
and you start to other thing then you
start to to to whatever I know it's kind
of a cliche one you need to stand it's
not how you fall it's how you stand yeah
we all know right not trying to be uh uh
you know uh clever here but I've been
told you know keep on
walking I I say this because your
story brings to like a bunch of
Statistics that I've I was reading about
as it relates to mental health um
someone dies by suicide in the UK every
90 minutes 76% of these are male 25
attempts for every death single biggest
cause of death for men under the age of
45 is suicide single biggest cause of
death for 15 to 49 year olds 19 to 35
year olds are twice as likely to report
being in the these stats are absolutely
shocking and there're almost 80% of this
is men it's the this crazy stat that
people always talk about the single
biggest cause of death if you're under
the age of 45 uh I will this is please
this is not a sexist thing or whatever I
don't want to enter the battle men w
this is not where I'm going but it's not
easy to be a
man that sheare
pressure and it is and the stats you
know will tell you uh and I I keep on
saying I don't know this is not me
trying to say that I thought about it or
whatever not not at all not that but I I
told you that there I'm sure you
remember my kids saved me and I'm not
saying that just like that but literally
I'll explain yeah I'll explain I don't
know where I was going mentally I don't
know really I don't know where I was I
was going CU when I came back from
covid came back home I didn't see
because after that year we were allowed
back home but then I knew if I was going
back to Montreal I don't know what was
happening with Co if I was going to not
see my kids for a year or whatever so
I'm at home next you know it's a month
whatever I pack my bags I was about to
leave
again so I said bye to my kids everybody
was there and you remember when I told
you uh my my young me never got any
approval never got any recognation no no
how can I explain that no no love Yeah
in bracket apart from the you know the
we have food we have this but was never
hugging or or saying or nodding or any
approval like that pack my bag I'm like
okay Daddy's about to leave next thing
you know I put my bags
down
and everyone starts to cry so I put my
bags down to say bye to everybody and
everybody starts to
cry
from the The Nanny to to my girlfriend
to the kids everybody was crying and
then for the first time for the first
time and I know people say oh my God
Cherry for the first time because at
that moment it
was the little me that felt it I'm like
oh they see
me not the football player not the
accolades not the and I felt
human not you know me always trying to
please people because oh you play
football
or you can put your cape on or this is
why they like you that's what they want
to see they want to see a guy that's
strong a guy that's going to perform
trans transmit transcend Inspire and the
both so be that guy okay boom let's do
it again today let's do it again today
but for the first time that day I was
like
oh they see me they were crying because
you were leaving yeah but this they were
crying for me to happy or crying for the
athlete understand me well I'm not
saying they didn't before but I never
realized it I never for the I felt it
the first time there and my little me
for the first time got
fed with
love put my bags down but I told you and
I stayed I stopped coaching in Montreal
I said I said what am I
doing what am I doing going to go again
into situation just because you're
pursuit of pleasing people and stuff and
stuff they they love they love Terry the
kids not not not t Henry they love ti so
I stayed and for the first time and I'm
not scared to say it I felt human I felt
like people like they saw
me like the human being I was like well
that feel nice it feels really nice this
is why I said my kids save me so I don't
where I was going I don't know if I was
going to obviously go back not see them
again I don't know where mentally that
would have brought me I I don't I I
don't actually know but that day is a
special day for me
because because yeah that what they did
fed my little my little me and you know
when you you you you've been looking for
something for so long but you don't know
what it was m
you just don't know it's annoying it's
like you're looking for something you
know you're looking for something but
you don't know what it is and you you've
been thrown a lot of things no that's
not it no that's not it no that's not it
that's still not it still not it and
then out of nowhere when I wasn't
looking for
anything it came but it was right in
front of you the whole
time yeah was I was I open enough to say
it though that the thing was I you know
this is why covid you know made me you
know
might vulnerability
empathy
understanding those emotions so the
doors were
there so suddenly when that happened oh
I was like oh that door well that's a
new door that's nice open boom done
before
like maybe that happened before and
never felt it if you know what I mean
it's it's kind of weird but I felt it
that day though and it did resonate and
you quit working in Montreal yeah
straight away straight
away it it reminds me I got a flashback
to speaking to Patrice Patrice Evra
Patrice Evra grew up in the south of
France I believe rough rough area no
same down as me same town yeah south of
Paris same town we from the same town
Patrice is a good friend of mine and he
he told me um he shared it publicly on
this podcast before that he I think he
was 40 years old and his partner at the
time kept asking him like are you okay
are you okay are you okay and then one
day she's at home there having a little
bit of a tiff and she turns to him and
goes Patrice are you are you happy and
he looked at her and he burst into tears
cried for the first time in his life and
it sounds like a similar moment a
similar sort of unlocking him was the
first time in his life he could ever
show that emotion and he said it was
that moment first time I ever cried
first time I ever showed her emotion
because up until then I'd been a tough
guy um and it was just the a question
asked at the right moment the right
question from the right person that
inspired him to boom and he says that's
the moment that unlocked his his
emotions and obviously he's on a journey
as well with no no no no I know yeah
yeah yeah Patrice look it it's
yeah this is why I literally say that
they they saved me because I don't know
where I was going I really don't
know I really don't know
but like I said it's very difficult for
me to compare to uh the way I was before
and and why you worked in bracket then
and not before because I was blind like
I just just said I said so many times
you know I could see so for example you
put me on the field I see
Solutions because I used to see the game
with my brain not with my
eyes i' explain you have dimensions on
the field right
MH right it's a rectangle
yeah if you put your head
up what can stop you this is why great
players always pass the ball in the air
you know when they arrive by the Box
they lift it how you defend the air you
can't defend the
air I always used to say like you can't
pass me because they think that the line
is there right I used to chip the ball
over your
leg of course I can pass your can you
can't defend the
air 20 billion people defending me if
you hold the line bowling behind you're
dead not on the ground in the
air so I I used to see the game with my
brain I see life with my
eyes and eyes can be pretty
deceiving MH so you know I I see
obstacles you see with your brain you're
like okay how can oh I can go through
there okay no problem but life I used to
see it I'm trying to change obviously I
used to see it with my eyes so no no no
but when he when it came to
competing I was like it's impossible
that you can stop me so okay oh okay
that's a solution you sound like a man
that's been through to therapy because
you use terminology that I've typically
heard from therapists things like the
inner child and no that's something that
I've since I'm young oh really I always
knew that uh I was disconnected with my
little self uh and the thing is that's
how I used to play Disconnected no just
I I you know all since I'm
young
like I see a solution like if someone
says we can't do this I'm like
why
why it's
like you know I me you saw me play I I
used to come in Midfield and and take
the ball and go I'm going to
goal and at particular
moment anyone will go like oh it's
impossible it's one v9 and I explain so
time it's not one v9 it's one V one if I
beat you I beat the line of four if I
beat you my son back after I beat the
line of four then I beat the goalkeeper
it's one V one at the time it's one V
one it's one V one and I score while I
do it or not def ball game but I was
capable of
visualizing visualizing sorry the path
instead of seeing so let me put the ball
back why why are you pushing the ball
back like okay Steven One V one I don't
care about the two guys are on your side
I beat you they're dead it's nothing
they can do now you and me after Center
back let's go I'm not saying and I
didn't go through all the time it's a
lie but I'm seeing the
solution so it's it's always something
that I I used to
have so and again to be in situation at
one point you need to over analyze
yourself but am I seeing someone yes I'm
seeing someone just I'm not I'm not
lying with that but the the two points
that you raised are always at that
because I I
have I was annoying as a player and as a
student I was always challenging my
coaches always I needed to
know why are we doing this drill like
was never going to do a drill in
training like boss why yeah but we don't
need that in the game oh why how can you
say that just being honest I'll do it
but I don't think we need that in the
game I just wanted to know why we're
doing this why is it going to be
relevant to how we
play like I got in trouble once at
school um we were analyzing a
poem you
know or whatever Terry what do you think
of that poem whatever so I think the
author wanted to say that whatever I
said the teacher was like no that's not
what he meant I'm like
wait can I speak I go Cherry you always
have something to say I said
well not always but I mean anyway so I
said to the to the teacher have you ever
met Victor
Ugo she said no I said how do you know
what he meant
then is not the beauty of of words can I
not see something different that you see
as long as you don't bring Victor you
goey and to tell me what he really meant
I'm not going to go with what you're
saying she sent me to the Head
Headmaster office but what I'm trying to
say I was always that guy why are you
going to tell me what I see of
it it's good that's what you think maybe
the guy was
drunk when he wrote it maybe he was
under
something I mean one of the best uh uh
Disney movie is Alis in Wonderland
I mean when you look at she clearly
wasn't
something yeah but it it wasn't not the
beauty of letting someone open their
mind so I always have been big on that
even young without realizing I I needed
to
know so just imagine now knowing all the
ingredients now about
me imagine now in that room room over
thinking yeah in Montreal yeah sounds CU
I I I need I need an
explanation that's why I'm saying
someone
because because I
need explanations and
sometimes you you don't have all the
tools are you still looking for
answers uh no I'm trying to deal and
digest with what happened cuz I now I
have the answers but it's not because
you have the answers sometimes that you
understand what happened yeah you see
what I mean I can give you the answer of
a of a of a riddle and you're
like did you understand
no you know what I mean so you can have
the answer of something and you're like
oh okay cool yeah did you get it though
yeah yeah yeah yeah that's the answer no
no did you get it yeah yeah yeah so
that's that's the get in it and the
absorbing it and the digesting part of
it that I'm trying to to to come to
terms with I guess it breaks down into
three stages which is to know to
understand and then to do like the
behavior change so to know something is
one thing we can all know things we all
know we should go to the gym and and you
don't I'm saying you obviously but
people don't they know it's better and
they still don't yeah and then
understand why that matters and why you
should go not everyone understands that
and then to do it most people don't do
it so there's three stages to
implementing something we know um and
you're in the stage of understanding and
implementing it's tough though man like
it's tough late in life to to even with
me with emotions and affection like I
still call I always called my parents by
the first name never called the m and
Dad yeah yeah yeah never hugged never
nothing so going into a relationship as
like a 31y old man it's all very like
like you were describing awkward like
sometimes I feel like I'm faking it when
I say things like emotional things I
know I've got to say it but I don't I
can't connect with it I'm classed as
like an avoidant emotionally I avoid um
we all do however this is why I call the
the cape cape can be
anything yeah for me it's business so
sometimes exactly oh when I know not
anymore when I knew a conversation was
going in a certain you know was going
somewhere I didn't want to be in I'm
like hey I I have to make a phone call
like an emotional conversation whatever
things that I didn't feel comfortable
I'm out as a dad now is much of your
motivation to do the work based on who
you want those three children to be and
the dad they want to connect with it's
tough because like I said to
you there's
there's it's not about not getting a
good example it's not the it's not the
word but I didn't I didn't have I didn't
have an
example understand there is a difference
we're not talking about good example I'm
talking about I didn't have a real
example of a couple at
home so for me that's already difficult
to deal with that as as a as a as a dad
because oh my dad used to or my dad you
know it didn't it didn't happen because
he wasn't around for
that then I myself wasn't a lot at home
as a as a player as a
dad and that carries on because of work
or thanks to work but because of work
but thanks to work if not also because
if not there's no home there's no
nothing there's no but having saying
that trying to fight the find the right
balance on something that I already
struggle with myself of being at home
but also how to be gave when you at when
you at home as a dad and that's the
fight of a lot of
men that's why they pursue
work because it's
it's in our
head a a a a more of a comfortable place
is your comfort zone while you think
it's your comfort zone because nothing
can be more Comfort Comfort comfortable
sorry than than being with your kids
but again you you pretend to live a
certain life because you're you're
afraid to find yourself in situation
where you don't know what to
do and it's kind of awkward or weird so
you like oh people are going to see me
naked they see my weakness uh I have
work to do I'm going to the office and
you leave oh I'm going somewhere or I'm
going you find a way to go somewhere all
the
time you understand what I'm saying and
and I'm not trying to you know let let
me rephrase that you don't find a way to
but when things comes you don't say no
yeah that's a better way to explain it
when a work opportunity you don't say no
yeah instead of going no this is time
with my
family because we are privileged in the
way to say no I'm talking about being
privileged because sometimes you cannot
say no but if we are privileged what are
you actually
chasing yes money let's not let's all be
honest okay money okay but what are you
is it is
it more important than spending time
with people that you love but
because you don't know how to
behave it's kind of a it's kind of a
weird way and then you said the same
thing your ways work okay yeah for I've
been at home for a week now uh I not
really me you know
so those are the stuff that are
difficult to deal with in my brain it's
kind of weird I know people say really
that's really hard yeah for me it is
really hard because I've never been a
homebody you never been at home since
since I'm 30 I've been on the
road you know and leave leave almost
alone you know on flights or or
somewhere you know whatever it is you
know so that I know well I'm not saying
it's good or that I know well so I'm
like Terry tomorrow you need to do this
alone or whatever you need to go back
with travel you're like yeah let's find
something oh that's tiring no it's okay
just but it's also Comfort right it's
familiar it is it is it's interesting CU
this is why when you're
young as a kid you always want to watch
the same cartoon that you know even it's
the same episode because knowing what's
coming next makes her feel comfortable
the familiar whether it's healthy or not
the therapists I've spoken to on the
show always talk about how we would we
unfortunately try and recreate the
unfamiliar as adults even if it was
unhealthy and they s say that in
relationships people will go for a
partner even if they're you know their
father or mother was abusive they'll go
for that because it was the the way they
learned love and I think about it the
same with with our careers as well you
know it's uh it really is a difficult
adjustment to make later in life to go
from being almost like institutionalized
and I use that word to describe the life
of a top athlete that's always you know
preparing for a game always flying
around the world always got a clear
Focus to suddenly having none of it um
and to have to as you described almost
like rebirth yourself there's a death
and there's like a rebirth and and and
and and this is
exactly what I why I said you
die you do it's a shock it's a shock to
the system when you whatever you you do
in your life by the
way I loved it so I
loved football I still love but love
football as a competitor like the
athlet regardless of what people say you
still can play football yeah yeah I know
not like that that is over I don't care
what people say no you know you can work
on now that's
over never gonna play again never
goingon to play in the Prem never
goingon to play Never Never that's
that's over that's dead so what's what's
the new tiar what's the what was born
out of those
ashes what's the next chapter for me my
my biggest challenge now is to be a good
dad I don't really care about the rest I
do understand what I'm saying so to
speak but in comparison to that yeah is
to be a better dad because I'm not there
yet not at all actually uh I I have a
long way to go um but I'm working on it
you know I'm not perfect but I'm aware
of what I'm missing that's always a good
start uh so for me that's that's I what
I would say you know a better a better
dad and and and and a better uh partner
uh you know because for so long you you
think that what you're doing is to
please others bring money back to have a
good life and everything but along the
way you're missing the the the the the
right moment of and the true essence of
life this is why I said sometime it's
tough to be a man in a certain way is
we've been told that we need to go out
there and and be men I don't even know
what it's supposed to
mean do you understand what I mean
that's that's why before I go back to oh
be a man what is
that because not showing emotion is not
being a man but I've been told not to
show emotion
that's being a man that's wrong so I
need to to readjust to that you know go
out there be that be strong be the the
level of expectation of always
delivering whatever you need to deliver
you know be a good dad be a good partner
it's like for everybody by the way you
know I'm not talking about gender and
everything but I'm a man so but be a man
what is that supposed to mean if you
could go back and have a conversation
with that 5year old tierry and you could
say a couple of words to him that maybe
would
have helped him later in life um that's
a tough one
because that's the fun because I I
always say I always say when people ask
me that I'll say Enjoy the
Ride enjoy the ride and I insist on
enjoy cuz I I forgot to enjoy the ride
and you do you regret that no I don't
regret it because maybe if I did enjoy
the ride I would have been different
it's so weird for me to say that but
this is what I will say to him now
knowing that he might have an
impact on his life and maybe not being
that good of a
player or maybe
better I don't actually know but I don't
I don't regret stuff because that's what
made you in a way
you know you learn from from people are
scared of
failing I'm I wasn't scared of
failure you know I I was more scared not
to please people but failure you're
going to
fail you know and that's what makes you
that's what shapes you so when people
say regret I don't regret it because
makes you be better or a better man or a
better person or whatever it is so I
don't have regrets but a thing along the
way we enjoy we we we we forget to enjoy
living to enjoy it we just we just do it
it's like breathing you don't think
about breathing right are you living now
yeah I am I'm enjoying it I'm trying to
enjoy it I'm trying to accept you know
when people say something to me like I I
never used to take a compliment well as
you can imagine
because what used to trigger me the most
was what I didn't do well so when
someone was like oh Cherry you good well
that's what I'm supposed to do Terry we
have a closing tradition on this podcast
which is kind of interesting because the
last guest leaves a question for the
next guest not knowing who they're
leaving it for and it's funny that this
is the question that's been left for
you what do you most regret from your
childhood and how are you working to
resolve that
regret what do you regret I said you I
don't regret anything but what I would
say to solve it in a way I don't regret
regret it it's true it's it's not a
cliche thing I do think that when you
you you you this
is your mistakes will make you better
hopefully but what I will say to my
young self is actually uh enjoy it don't
forget to enjoy it and be happy the
question before I'm going to ask you
instead because I already asked you that
what things are you doing that are
contributing to keeping you stuck or
stopping you from progressing in the way
that you would
like uh pleasing people still yeah
because it's some that's something I
cannot get rid of but I need to to to
balance it out with my own
happiness so I can't help myself
pleasing people that's something that I
have in me and I think you know what
it's I think personally it's it's a good
trade but you can't go too far with it
because you forget your own happiness
what do you want people to you know we
know the tiar on the on the pitch the
Legend
but what do you want to be remembered as
especially considering your you know
you've got so many chapters of life left
to
live I like I said to you I just want to
be remembered because if you are
remembered is because you've done
something uh you're going to be
remembered but that's good enough for me
then it will depends on people but for
me what matters right now is are you are
you transcend people what you transmit
and how you can help people for example
to be able to open up like the way I am
matters for me more than
because when you did succeed and people
see you as someone that they like to
follow tell them you struggled tell them
the real you for them to understand
fully what's happening and that matters
more than any title that I want that
matters more than anything else be
honest stop lying and I did lie for for
a very long time because you have to
because Society wasn't ready to hear
what you have to say especially in my
world uh but that if you can have an
impact on someone's life and the other
day I was in Miami I will be honest with
you I
don't I don't
really I don't get bothered I I'm not
too bothered when people say oh my God
Cherry like I love it I love to hear it
but I'm not like after like did you see
what he said you know I don't take it
too far but there was a guy the other
day I'm in Miami a cup he came and he
says to me cherry can you can you sign
on on my
arm what you what you what you going to
do it's like I mean so no I'm going to
tattoo your your your autograph and I
was like and I looked at him I said come
on man you have you know more important
stuff to do and he goes like no you
changed my
life so I looked at him and I went
sorry they went yes man you don't
understand through the struggle I was
looking up to you and you changed my
life I didn't know what to
say I I didn't know what to say I really
like I stopped and I looked at people
and I
went then I
realized what matters then I
realized without
knowing from the the the the the the the
mission of a man from the mission of my
dad actually throughout all the
struggles all the problem that I'm still
dealing
with that's for that that is exactly for
that because you that man said to
me like I change his life saved him from
playing football it's like I said to you
is what you transmit in now you
transcend people I don't know why he saw
because I you know I had to go and I
actually took his uh his his address and
his name I still have it at home I need
to write him write something for him and
send him something
soon but that is something yes when like
up until now and that's something yes I
will tell my kids not that I won W cups
and stuff like that I will tell my
kid tiry thank you so much for having
this conversation with me um for many
many reasons I I met you in Paris and I
sat there in awe because I knew the
player but I didn't know the man and I
sat there on the edge of my chair
because I got a glimpse of the man and
for me you know the stuff you did on the
field you're a legend there's you know
there's almost nobody that I can there's
no comparisons there on the
field but the the thing that blew me
away was your willingness to speak so
vulnerably and powerfully as a human and
as a man and that's why I then messaged
you straight after and said please I
would love to have a conversation with
you because it left such a profound
impact on me to think oh my God tiar on
re feels those things Taron re has those
struggles it makes it okay for me to
have those struggles and it will make it
okay for the millions of people that
will listen to this conversation to have
those struggles as well and in and and
in normalizing it and us all realizing
that those struggles aren't evidence of
my inadequacy or evidence that I'm
broken it's actually evidence that I'm a
human being too like tiar exactly helps
me to move past those struggles and
that's the one of the most powerful
things and I think one of the most
inspiring things that you can do and
it's another example of TI R
transcending in another chapter of his
of his life in another way so thank you
so much thank you and I say that thanks
I extend it on behalf of everybody
listening as well who who would love to
be able to say it to you thank you so
much thank you thank you
Stephen do you need a podcast to listen
to next we've discovered that people who
liked this episode also tend to
absolutely love another recent episode
we've done so I've linked that episode
in the description below I know you'll
enjoy
[Music]
it